[Music]
when using x3
we go higher repetitions so the minimum
amount of repetitions you do
should be 15. there's a very good reason
for why
and it's not a research-based reason
it's practical based reason
because you're seven times stronger in
that stronger range out here
than you are back at the bottom the
weight you're
using in that stronger range is far
beyond what your one rep maximum would
be
so like for example when i do the chest
press with this bar
and the elite band that's the one i use
it's 540 pounds at peak and i might do
22 reps that's about where i'm where i'm
at right now
so i do 22 repetitions i'm
sure oh i couldn't do a one rep maximum
on a regular bench press with 540 pounds
so remember x3 is built to trigger
muscle to grow not so
you can talk about how strong you are if
you want to go do a feat of strength
somewhere else
as irresponsible as that may be be my
guest
but that's not what x3 is for so take
the ego out of it
and do 15 repetitions minimum
because when you're out here if you
can't do at least 15 repetitions
you're using a weight you have no
business being under
and you could let go of the bar and
cause an injury
you know it can come and snap back at
you in a chest press and hit you in the
chest
it could hit the top of your feet in a
dead lift which does happen from time to
time
it doesn't happen to the people who use
it correctly
but it does to the people who don't use
there's rare exceptions to that um
one small piece of advice you might not
want to do this
while you're watching your kids because
they can distract you because they are
troublemakers at times so you know if
you lose focus while you're doing a
heavy
weight lifting experience you you
you could be distracted and you could
let go
uh so you want to make sure you're
hanging on the bar 15 repetitions
minimum
and then for on the maximum side we go
all the way up to 40 repetitions
these repetitions are also very slow and
controlled
two to three seconds up and two to three
seconds back so that is a very slow and
controlled
movement now uh that forces much more
stabilization
firing which then triggers a growth
hormone up regulation
so this is why people get so lean so
quickly
using x3 so that's really important
now what we also see sometimes is
people saying they want to do a light
day and a heavy day now i know why they
want to do that there's a lot of
articles written about periodization
now periodization does
with regular weightlifting induce better
results
the research has shown this and the
reason why people do like a light day
and a heavy day when they do
periodization
is because you kind of build up you go
light days and the medium days and the
heavy days and then you
kind of cycle back down the reason is
you're focused more on sarcoplasmic
growth
which is the volume of a cell with a
sarcoplasmic type stimulus and that's a
high repetition type day
and on a
lower repetition heavier day the quote
heavy days
you're using a higher weight to try and
stimulate
myofibril growth which is actually the
density
of the cell as opposed to just the
volume the density and power so
they complement each other but with
weights you can't get both
in one experience now
applying this to x3
is not smart because
every experience with x3 is
the benefit of a heavy day and it is the
benefit of a light
day so you get both at once
so the benefit of the heavy day is when
you are going to fatigue in this range
of motion
and using a weight beyond a one rep
maximum
so you're triggering all kinds of growth
and
well first fatigue and then growth and
then as you
diminish the range this is a very
important part of the protocol
as you can't get to that to that
uh stronger range you do shorter
repetitions
so my last few repetitions in the chest
press
are like let's say half and my last
let's say two or three
might only be like one inch now when
that happens
you're evacuating all of the atp
glycogen and creatine phosphate in the
cells
forcing the cells to get rid of all of
their contractile fuels
which then volumize the cell so you get
the benefit
of both in every experience with x3